Brief history about Argentum Online I

 The development of the game began in late 2000, the team involved in the project was not professional, just simple people on Internet with almost no experience in game development. When we released the first open beta version of the game we were told that we had to choose a name for our Development team, I really don't know why, I believe that it was for marketing reasons, so in this way the core of this team was baptized as NoLand Studios. So there is no credit for other teams. Even tough, it is true that plenty of people have supported the project and worked as much as any member of Noland Studios, we are very grateful to them, these people had a key role not only in the development process but also in supporting and providing us the resources needed to perform gratefully our work. They are also responsible of the game success.

 The aim of the project was to make the first FREE Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game of Latin America and to learn as much as we could during the development. The project has never been thought to profit, and we will never do it. Now, December 2002, the game is in its final beta stages, it has been almost two years of development, two years of hard work. The game has gotten an excellent welcome from people on the net, there are more that 2000 active players, most of them from Argentina, Latin America and Spain. There are three servers available to play the game,two in Argentina and one in Spain; all the servers are full of life, as soos as you enter to our magic world you will see people running, talking and fighting around you. We have achieved a record of 375 simultaneous players on our main server, and usually there is more than 200 persons playing the game at any hour. 
 We are working on the final version of the game, fixing a lot of bugs, making new maps, adding new features and reorganizing the staff of Game Masters. In a short term, we will release the final version of the game. We are also planning to release the source code of the project, we believe that anyone that wants to run his own server has the rigth to do it. After finishing the work on the final version we will realease the source code of the whole project. It will be our gift to the comunity.

 Argentum Online I isn't a technological marvel, its 2D graphical engine is pretty basic, yet good enough to represent properly the magic world of Argentum. It is clear that the success of the game is not due to its technological features, the game was successful because we let the players do whatever they want to do. We don't ask players to fight wars that no one can win, we don't try them as fools, because ourselves, as players, don't want to be treated as fools. Our game doesn't fit to the "succesful" pattern of perfectly profitable game; we don't pursue money, we don't follow recipes, we are only guided by our imagination.


Technical stuff

 The game was written mainly in Visual Basic 6 and Assembly, it is based on early versions of ORE, Online Role Playing Engine, by Baronsoft. For more information about it you can visit www.baronsoft.com. When we first started to work on the game, we didn't think that it will be played for more than 50 persons, yet the time was passing, new players were continuously arriving to the game and the community never stopped to grow. We tought the game for 50 players and somehow we had to work it out to support over than 350 simultaneous players. We selected Visual Basic as a programming lenguage for our project: a small project, a game for no more than 50 players. But Argentum was always growing, every day arrived new adventurers to Argentum and the towns were full of inhabitants, the project changed its dimension, and our initial election gave us some troubles.

 There are some taboos in informatics, one of them is that you will only be able to do interesting things in C/C++ language. I always listen to people, with almost no experiece, to repeat this argument as parrots, and when you ask simple questions like why they are saying this, they start to speak about speed, portability, etc; all of them well known virtues of C/C++ language. But then I ask them: Do you need all these virtues of C/C++? Can your project only be achieved by using C/C++? Is there any other tool/compiler that can perform the same work?.
In most of the cases I get this response: "I use C/C++ because it is the best language" or something like that. In my opinion there is a sort of fanatism about this issue, people who hold this kind of arguments are not able to see beyond their fanatic ideas, they cannot see that they can do exactly what they want to do in other programming language, saving their most important resource: development time. Suppose there are two options: language A and language B, the development using language A takes six months, using the language B takes 3 months. Now tell me, what is the best language?. The funny thing is that most of these people say: "Delphi doesn't work" or "Visual Basic isn't good enough" end up quiting their projects because they are not as virtuous as the language they are using, and surely they will feel that they were not born to be programmers because they have not been able to handle C/C++. 
In my opinion there is not a best language, it depends mainly of the characteristics of your project what language is more convenient. We chose Visual Basic for a small amateur project, when the project growed we had some problems, but the mistake was made for us, it is not a problem of the language. So, if you find a tool that makes exactly the same work, it saves some time, and surely it is more easy to handle, use it!!!. Programming is not using C/C++, programming is abstraction, thinking about algorithms, mathematics and using the right tools. We have gone beyond the bounderies of these so-called bad languages, we can assure you that you can do very interesting thigs with them.

We would also like to highlight that Argentum was made without any funds, the whole work was made by people on the Internet for no fee at all. It is obvious that our game cannot be compared with professional ones; it cannot because we are not professional developers and we made the game with no money. Our team doesn't have exclusive dedication on our projects, all of us work on the projects in our spare time, we receive no fee for our work and we are not looking for investors, we work because we enjoy it, for us, this is not more than another game, a learning game.

It is our wish that the game will always be available on the Internet; that it won`t depend on any individuals or companys, we thought that releasing the source code of the whole project was essential to achieve it. Our work is done, from now on, the evolution of the game won't depend on us.

Enjoy the code!

Gulfas Morgolock
morgolock@speedy.com.ar